# Thesis_Student-influx-prediction

The influx of students is not only an important source of academic deployment but also influences national development. Higher education in the Netherlands has expanded rapidly in the last two decades, and the Dutch labour market also needs these talented people in the fastest-growing ICT industry. It is essential for the university to forecast the incoming students and avoid adverse effects in response to the rising student population. In this thesis, the XGBoost Regression algorithm is proposed to predict the Master's student influx in the following five years and investigate the feature importance of the student population. The model is trained by the background information of Bachelor’s students to estimate the long-term growth of the Master’s student influx in Computing Science. The findings and analysis can provide objective references to initiate the educational strategy.

The machine learning process is divided into two parts as Figure 1. In the first phase, it applies the slide window method to stimulate the pre-prepared data within the scope of feature engineering for the upcoming 5 years. In the second phase, the XGBoost regression model is designed to predict the Master’s student influx as a predictive model. The model is trained by the selected features in the historical data and Gain mechanism will rank the feature importance towards the total population. After the data was prepared and the model was established, the simulated data will be tested with the machine learning algorithm to predict the student influx in the near future. As the result, the facts and figures can provide insight into the high-impact features and forecast the long-term student population.
